README.md, before:

# IMPORTANT NOTE
As I have graduated and no longer have access to university resources including a working copy of Visual Studio, I am unable to verify the steps required to install the Aria API in order to get this code running.
Code will still run to only train the neural network if all dependencies to Aria.h are removed and `RUNROBOT` in `NeuralNetworkManager.h` is set to `false`


# ce889-neural-network
Code for a neural network assignment to implement a single hidden-layer neural network in C++ using the C++ standard library. The neural network is then applied to an Aria robot using the Aria API.


## `MatrixFast`
Contains custom implemented, fast matrix functionality.

## `NeuralNetworkManager`
Provides functionality to train and test multiple neural networks with different hyper-parameters.

## `NeuralNetwork`
Represents a single hidden layer neural network for the provided training and validation data sets. 

Feedforward process is achieved with the following code;

    MatrixFast::multiply(&X, &hiddenWeights, &VH);
    VH += hiddenBias;
    VH.applyFunction(hiddenActivationFunction->activation,LAMBDA, &H);
    
    MatrixFast::multiply(&H, &outputWeights, &V);
    V += outputBias;
    V.applyFunction(outputActivationFunction->activation, LAMBDA, &Y);`

This represents the following equations:

<img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\\\mathbf{V}^h=\mathbf{XW}^h+\mathbf{B}^h\\\mathbf{H}=\varphi^h(\mathbf{V}^h)\\\mathbf{V}=\mathbf{HW}^h+\mathbf{B}\\\mathbf{Y}=\varphi(\mathbf{V}) "/>

where **X** is a 1 by 2 column vector of inputs. **W**^h^ is a 2 by n matrix of hidden weights. **B**^h^ is a 1 by n column vector of hidden biases. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\varphi^h" /> is the activation function for the hidden layer. **W** is an n by 2 matrix of output weights. **B** is a 1 by 2 column vector of output biases. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\varphi" /> is the activation function for the output.

Thus the full feedforward equation is:

<img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\mathbf{Y}=\varphi\left(\left(\varphi^h\left(\mathbf{XW}^h+\mathbf{B}^h\right)\right)\mathbf{W}+\mathbf{B}\right) " />


Backpropagation is calculated with the following code:

    MatrixFast::subtract(&T, &Y, &Error);
    
    V.applyFunction(outputActivationFunction->derivative, LAMBDA, &localGradient);
    localGradient.hadamard(&Error);
    
    MatrixFast G2(1, numHiddenNeurons);
    VH.applyFunction(hiddenActivationFunction->derivative, LAMBDA,&G2);
    
    MatrixFast::multiply(&localGradient, &outputWeights, &localHiddenGradient, false, true);
    localHiddenGradient.hadamard(&G2);
    
    MatrixFast dOW(numHiddenNeurons, numOutput);
    MatrixFast::multiply(&H, &localGradient, &dOW, true, false);
    dOW.scale(ETA);
    
    MatrixFast dHW(numInput, numHiddenNeurons);
    MatrixFast::multiply(&X, &localHiddenGradient, &dHW, true, false);
    dHW.scale(ETA);
    
    MatrixFast dOB(1, numOutput);
    localGradient.scale(ETA, &dOB);
    
    MatrixFast dHB(1, numHiddenNeurons);
    localHiddenGradient.scale(ETA, &dHB);
    
    
    dOW += alphaOutputWeight;
    outputWeights += dOW;
    
    dOB += alphaOutputBias;
    outputBias += dOB;

    dHW += alphaHiddenWeight;
    hiddenWeights += dHW;

    dHB += alphaHiddenBias;
    hiddenBias += dHB;

    dOW.scale(ALPHA, &alphaOutputWeight);
    dOB.scale(ALPHA, &alphaOutputBias);
    dHW.scale(ALPHA, &alphaHiddenWeight);
    dHB.scale(ALPHA, &alphaHiddenBias);



which represents the following equations:

<img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\\ \mathbf{E}=\mathbf{T-Y}\\\boldsymbol{\delta}=\mathbf{E}\circ \varphi^\prime({\mathbf{V}})\\\Delta\mathbf{W}=\eta\mathbf{H^T}\boldsymbol{\delta}+\alpha\Delta\mathbf{W_{t-1}}\\\Delta\mathbf{B}=\eta\boldsymbol{\delta}+\alpha\Delta\mathbf{B_{t-1}}\\\boldsymbol{\delta}^h=\boldsymbol{\delta}\mathbf{W^T}\circ \varphi^{h^\prime}(\mathbf{V}^h)\\\Delta\mathbf{W}^h=\eta\mathbf{X^T}\boldsymbol{\delta}^h+\alpha\Delta\mathbf{W}^h_\mathbf{t-1}\\\Delta\mathbf{B}^h=\eta\boldsymbol{\delta}^h+\alpha\Delta\mathbf{B}^h_\mathbf{t-1}" />
<br/><br/>
<img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\\\Delta\mathbf{W_{t-1}}=\textbf{W}+\Delta\mathbf{W}\\ \Delta\mathbf{W}^h_\mathbf{t-1}=\textbf{W}^h+\Delta\mathbf{W^h}\\ \Delta\mathbf{B_{t-1}}=\textbf{B}+\Delta\mathbf{B}\\\Delta\mathbf{B}^h_\mathbf{t-1}=\textbf{B}^h+\Delta\mathbf{B}^h " />

Where <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\circ" /> denotes the Hadamard product, and <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\mathbf{M^T} " /> denotes the transposition of matrix <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\mathbf{M}" />. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\mathbf{T}" /> is a 1 by 2 column vector of target values. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\varphi^\prime" /> is the derivative of the output activation function. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\varphi^{h^\prime}" /> is the derivative of the hidden activation function. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\eta" /> and <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\alpha" /> are scalars representing the learning rate and momentum respectively.
To speed up hyper-parameter searching, parallel processing was introduced using OpenMP.


## `TrainedNetwork`
This class represents a trained a `NeuralNetwork` object

## All Other Classes
All other classes remain unusued. They are from the initial inefficient scalar-based implementation

Commit message:

Updated README Removed unused config

README.md, after:

# ce889-neural-network
Code for a neural network assignment to implement a single hidden-layer neural network in C++ using the C++ standard library. The neural network is then applied to an Aria robot using the Aria API.

If you have access to the ARIA API and are running on a mobile robot, use the RunRobot build configuration. 

Otherwise use the RunNetwork (default) configuration to train a demo neural network.

## `MatrixFast`
Contains custom implemented, fast matrix functionality.

## `NeuralNetworkManager`
Provides functionality to train and test multiple neural networks with different hyper-parameters.

## `NeuralNetwork`
Represents a single hidden layer neural network for the provided training and validation data sets. 

Feedforward process is achieved with the following code;

    MatrixFast::multiply(&X, &hiddenWeights, &VH);
    VH += hiddenBias;
    VH.applyFunction(hiddenActivationFunction->activation,LAMBDA, &H);
    
    MatrixFast::multiply(&H, &outputWeights, &V);
    V += outputBias;
    V.applyFunction(outputActivationFunction->activation, LAMBDA, &Y);`

This represents the following equations:

<img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\\\mathbf{V}^h=\mathbf{XW}^h+\mathbf{B}^h\\\mathbf{H}=\varphi^h(\mathbf{V}^h)\\\mathbf{V}=\mathbf{HW}^h+\mathbf{B}\\\mathbf{Y}=\varphi(\mathbf{V}) "/>

where **X** is a 1 by 2 column vector of inputs. **W**^h^ is a 2 by n matrix of hidden weights. **B**^h^ is a 1 by n column vector of hidden biases. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\varphi^h" /> is the activation function for the hidden layer. **W** is an n by 2 matrix of output weights. **B** is a 1 by 2 column vector of output biases. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\varphi" /> is the activation function for the output.

Thus the full feedforward equation is:

<img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\mathbf{Y}=\varphi\left(\left(\varphi^h\left(\mathbf{XW}^h+\mathbf{B}^h\right)\right)\mathbf{W}+\mathbf{B}\right) " />


Backpropagation is calculated with the following code:

    MatrixFast::subtract(&T, &Y, &Error);
    
    V.applyFunction(outputActivationFunction->derivative, LAMBDA, &localGradient);
    localGradient.hadamard(&Error);
    
    MatrixFast G2(1, numHiddenNeurons);
    VH.applyFunction(hiddenActivationFunction->derivative, LAMBDA,&G2);
    
    MatrixFast::multiply(&localGradient, &outputWeights, &localHiddenGradient, false, true);
    localHiddenGradient.hadamard(&G2);
    
    MatrixFast dOW(numHiddenNeurons, numOutput);
    MatrixFast::multiply(&H, &localGradient, &dOW, true, false);
    dOW.scale(ETA);
    
    MatrixFast dHW(numInput, numHiddenNeurons);
    MatrixFast::multiply(&X, &localHiddenGradient, &dHW, true, false);
    dHW.scale(ETA);
    
    MatrixFast dOB(1, numOutput);
    localGradient.scale(ETA, &dOB);
    
    MatrixFast dHB(1, numHiddenNeurons);
    localHiddenGradient.scale(ETA, &dHB);
    
    
    dOW += alphaOutputWeight;
    outputWeights += dOW;
    
    dOB += alphaOutputBias;
    outputBias += dOB;

    dHW += alphaHiddenWeight;
    hiddenWeights += dHW;

    dHB += alphaHiddenBias;
    hiddenBias += dHB;

    dOW.scale(ALPHA, &alphaOutputWeight);
    dOB.scale(ALPHA, &alphaOutputBias);
    dHW.scale(ALPHA, &alphaHiddenWeight);
    dHB.scale(ALPHA, &alphaHiddenBias);



which represents the following equations:

<img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\\ \mathbf{E}=\mathbf{T-Y}\\\boldsymbol{\delta}=\mathbf{E}\circ \varphi^\prime({\mathbf{V}})\\\Delta\mathbf{W}=\eta\mathbf{H^T}\boldsymbol{\delta}+\alpha\Delta\mathbf{W_{t-1}}\\\Delta\mathbf{B}=\eta\boldsymbol{\delta}+\alpha\Delta\mathbf{B_{t-1}}\\\boldsymbol{\delta}^h=\boldsymbol{\delta}\mathbf{W^T}\circ \varphi^{h^\prime}(\mathbf{V}^h)\\\Delta\mathbf{W}^h=\eta\mathbf{X^T}\boldsymbol{\delta}^h+\alpha\Delta\mathbf{W}^h_\mathbf{t-1}\\\Delta\mathbf{B}^h=\eta\boldsymbol{\delta}^h+\alpha\Delta\mathbf{B}^h_\mathbf{t-1}" />
<br/><br/>
<img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\\\Delta\mathbf{W_{t-1}}=\textbf{W}+\Delta\mathbf{W}\\ \Delta\mathbf{W}^h_\mathbf{t-1}=\textbf{W}^h+\Delta\mathbf{W^h}\\ \Delta\mathbf{B_{t-1}}=\textbf{B}+\Delta\mathbf{B}\\\Delta\mathbf{B}^h_\mathbf{t-1}=\textbf{B}^h+\Delta\mathbf{B}^h " />

Where <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\circ" /> denotes the Hadamard product, and <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\mathbf{M^T} " /> denotes the transposition of matrix <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\mathbf{M}" />. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\mathbf{T}" /> is a 1 by 2 column vector of target values. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\varphi^\prime" /> is the derivative of the output activation function. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\varphi^{h^\prime}" /> is the derivative of the hidden activation function. <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\eta" /> and <img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?\alpha" /> are scalars representing the learning rate and momentum respectively.
To speed up hyper-parameter searching, parallel processing was introduced using OpenMP.


## `TrainedNetwork`
This class represents a trained a `NeuralNetwork` object

## All Other Classes
All other classes remain unusued. They are from the initial inefficient scalar-based implementation
